# COVID19 Drug Discovery Project (Current Work in Progress)
Dataset taken from: https://www.kaggle.com/divyansh22/drug-discovery-data

### Introduction: 
The COVID-19 pandemic has caused over 5 million deaths worldwide since 2020 (worldometers.info). Despite innovations in mRNA vaccination research, creation and distribution, many people still refuse to get vaccinated or seek other sources of treatment. This underscores a crucial need for therapeutics that are effective against killing the coronavirus and it's variants responsible for infection. The dataset from a kaggle.com competition has 100s of compounds that were screened for activity against the virus. This project seeks to determine if we can predict the pIC50 values of molecules based on various features that are electronically and experimentally generated. Generating predictions based on molecular properties of these compounds can drastically decrease the amount of resources that goes into synthesis and testing, giving researchers a more clear direction in which to focus their efforts. The prediction model will be trained on pre-labeled data, and used to predict if unlabled compounds possess any activity. Then, for both testing and training sets, the structures of the compounds will be examined for any potential pharmacophores to give hints to the mechanism of action.

### DATA UNDERSTANDING:
Many features in the dataset are crucial for determining how well these compounds act against COVID19. pIC50 and XlogP are the typical hallmark pharmacological variables that indicate how effective a compound will be as a potential therapeutic. pIC50 is the logrithimic transformation of IC50, which determines the concentration necessary to inhibit 50% of the activity of the drug target or the targeted biological process. LogP is a measure of lipophlicity which is used to determine how well the drug will be absorbed by the body. IC50s in the nanomolar (nM) or picomolar (pM) ranges are usually considered to be very active compounds, while certain LogP values are optimal dependent upon how the drug will be administered. Oral, subcutaneous, rectal, and injectible routes of drug administration all have optimal LogP values that determine the best route of administration.

The engineered dataset values such as HBondDonorCount, FeatureCounts, etc all hold key information about the drug structure itself that could potentially influence it's activity. The presence of Hydrogen bond donors and acceptors, as well as features releated to stereochemistry (StereoCounts) can affect how well the target binds to the drug.

Finally, certain features don't impact drug activity at all (Molecular formula, Weight, SMILES, CID, etc). While these are important features for describing general characteristics of the compound, they are not effective predictors of drug efficacy and will likely not be a part of the predictive model. 